That's correct. OK.
Alright, let me share my screen.
OK. Can you guys see my screen?
OK, perfect.
Yeah. So several logistic reminders.
So homework ready uploaded.
Confirm with Professor Wang about,
you know,
the last time we talked about the
graduate students, it's really about.
Whoever register for that class, the five,
the class, start with some.
Digit 5,
so that is considered as a graduate level
class. So then.
So good news is that you guys will only
have like 1-1 more homework one.
It's it's gonna be more difficult than
the usually.
Then the usual homework that we have so
done,
but you do not have one additional final
exam, just one more homework.
So then just wanna make that one more
difficult and then that will be the
difference.
But I I cannot really job that homework,
no matter how good or bad that grade will
be for you guys.
So then I will drop the regular homework,
but not that one.
So then that will be considered the key
difference between this 5.
Level class versus A4 level class, right?
But you know,
good news is you don't have final exam as
well.
You still do not have that final exam.
You just have one one more homework and
then I will try my best to pose that
homework.
Before the next class so that you have
entire months to finish it just before
the final presentation,
you just turn it in. That's it.
So I I I believe that will be really
doable.
So there's still no pressure.
And then enjoy learning machine learning,
OK or AI.
So I currently have.
So there's a newer network that I already
have 55 slides and then next week I feel
I gonna have 100 slides.
Just I just wanna go slow about, you know,
the neural network.
So then I feel you guys should build a
really solid foundation on understanding
the neural network,
because when we talk about the large
language model.
ALS.
At least for the models piece.
Whatever we learn at a neural network,
gonna be the building bricks for large
language models.
Those models are gonna be more and more a
much more complex than neural network.
You know,
you once you you learn the large language
model,
you go back and see the neural network.
You feel like, Oh my God,
it's really like arithmetic to you guys,
although you don't feel so at at this
stage, right?
So yeah,
so last time we talked about gradient
descent and then I I build.
Excel model example demonstration about
you know the to graduate great gradient
descent.
So this is the code of writing a graded
decent in Python, right? So then.
What we did is you just need to get some
initial value.
The initial value could be whatever value.
And then you just going to run a loop.
It's a four loop for for Python or
different loop for different programming
languages.
So then in the loop,
you just need to calculate the derivative
of the loss function and then you define
your own learning rate and then every
time you just refresh your data.
And then you use your thi that you update
those values until the error is good so.
The Theta is going to assume.
Optimize your weight so this is how the
gradient were.
A gradient descent is working.
Pretty powerful tool and then we gonna
use it again today.
So I I I will keep reminding you guys
about gradient gradient descent.
It's it's a very powerful tool.
For neural network,
we're gonna use it a lot of times, right?
And then in terms of A use case of the
neural networks,
and let me just enlarge it.
So then before we are talking about a lot
of things like identification,
regression but now.
When we have the neural network,
we have a new applications.
I'll go trading.
There's a lot of paper articles about,
you know,
using neural networking algorith, meeting.
For example this one.
So they use reinforcement learning in in
all go training.
It's quite powerful.
And then they they also show in this
article they show.
Their results?
The Sr.
is a sharp ratio and the RR percent is
return ratio.
So they have 3 strategies to compare
against with.
So first one is is the one that they are
introducing in this articles reinforce
reinforcement learning gdqn that is this
one.
And they have a gated deterministic
policy, the gradient.
So GDP?
Another one is hurdle and turns out the
turtle strategy is quite interesting.
I provide the article link to here. See.
Turtle strategy.
Quite, quite interesting that, you know,
I may use it in in the future.
Here you can definitely find this one.
It's a pretty old strategy and they have
some slides introduced.
This slide strategy is quite easy
strategy to use if you are interested in,
you can definitely learn it.
Quite easy.
Focus on some, really.
They they don't focus on,
they don't have a lot of like really
fancy technology.
They just they focus on liquidity and
then that's that's one of the reason they
they purchase some of the.
Stocks or or fund or bonds or or or or
commodities, right? So then.
It's it's hard to be, not bad.
The strategy to use and then also these
were article where is it?
These were article is using this as a
benchmark and then you can also.
Find this article from archive.
So this is one.
This is the the reinforcement learning
algorithm.
I'll go trading article so.
They provided a lot of technical details
and then if you're interested in you can
definitely replicate.
Whatever they have done,
quite interesting.
Whatever I copy paste from this article
is this very table and then they just do
some comparison.
Their strategy versus the turtle strategy
has a benchmark.
And then the the data they were using is
2016 to 2019 and just keep that in your
mind that?
They selected the data like before COVID.
Posted COVID.
I don't think this article gonna say hey,
I I can guarantee that you know,
this strategy has still work.
From post to pre COVID result is not bad.
My APLG IBM those are pretty big
companies.
And then I think they are doing a pretty
good job on average compared to this
turtle strategy, especially for IBM.
I mean, they have an active return.
Learn to have an active ritual over this
one managed to have a positive ritual
which is good.
But you know, I have done some,
I'll go trading.
Exercise.
As per.
Exploration before.
Just just be cautious, right?
So then you you're gonna use algorithm to
automatically select the stocks that in
your portfolio, right?
You know I when I hold it something to
build my own portfolio and then working
with my colleagues before.
Who is?
Who is my office made in in my PhD
program?
We we were coding something for ourselves
and then trying to try to earn some money.
And then and then, yeah,
we we did call something that is
providing some pretty good sharp ratio.
We're trying to compete with against each
other. The funny thing is.
From the back testing, right,
so that you you definitely have back then
I think some that's a pretty 2022.
I believe when we try to build something
and and and the back test.
Thing is you you just took a time machine
to go back to pre call with period.
For example 2018 and then you build your
algorithm and then you automatically
gonna buy some stocks in in your
portfolio every single day and then the
machine gonna decide that.
And then you can just mimic what gonna
happen to your portfolio by investing,
for example, like $10,
000 to start your portfolio.
Yeah,
we we we achieved some really good return.
And then when we review our our our
algorithm.
You're pretty much like the algorithm
telling one thing.
Just add Tesla to your portfolio.
And then whenever you add Tesla to your
portfolio, man,
you have really good return.
However,
if you restrict adding that Tesla to your
portfolio,
it's just basically like commodity.
This is a normal portfolio and this it
cannot really be.
It's the market.
I mean,
the Tesla was a really good stocks during
2020 to 2002 period of time, so then.
I think Tesla to your profile gonna be in
all different kind of competing
portfolios,
which is not quite surprising for us.
So just keeping your mind that you,
you you definitely need to have a back
test reveal.
Make sure that there's no serious
weakness of your portfolio,
because if you you, you,
you went heavy on on on Tesla and then.
This current quarter gonna be hitting you
a lot.
Because Tesla declined a lot, right? So,
so but definitely this is the one
interesting article to read.
And then if you guys are are.
Super crazy with, you know,
coding and building your own found and
then you can definitely try to do this
and then run some back test and see
whether or not the algorithm work for you.
But what I know is I feel this this other
just selectively chose this period pre
COVID and you know #1 there's no Tesla
that is arriving so fast.
The pre COVID and #2 is not a big
volatility in the market.
So this should give you some insight how
to build, how to how to run our goal.
I'll go trading,
but just be cautious when you when you
build your own,
especially when you start investing your
real money. So that'll be.
You know, risky, but it's also fun.
So yeah,
so then neural network are definitely
open doors for outgo trading.
Another example, this one is is some.
Some folks have the algo trading in in in
Singaporean market.
So this is another interesting.
Interesting result.
And then also you can find this article
online and then they they should provide
some supercool demonstrated demonstration
of the neural network.
I build umm, you know,
it looks like a rocket when it's super
cool.
What they did is they actually using.
They were actually using the daily stock
price data and then they gonna they're
gonna predict.
The coming days,
closing price and then and and and and
two days later closing price and then
five days in the future, right.
So then,
so they have the high dependency on on on
forecast,
so then their strategy is quite easy.
So it's really like they predict,
for example,
tomorrow's a close price gonna be.
Gonna be lower than their current cost
price.
Then they're gonna sell it.
Otherwise they have different entry rule
12345.
Then that means like if you if I predict
tomorrow close price is actually.
Higher than current price, I'll buy.
Two means two days in your role that
tomorrow and day after tomorrow close
price gonna be higher than my current
price. I'll buy. So as you can see,
five days meaning like they they go
really strict.
I have 5 days in a row my predicted.
With close price is higher than my
current price.
I'll buy this stock whenever I see the
close price lower than my my current
stock price. I'll sell.
So that's basically their strategy.
Quite, very simple strategy and then.
The good news is I don't know if it's
really like some stocks they they
selected in Singapore market that is
super stable.
So then that that's why they can enjoy
such such low meaning.
The mean absolute percent error.
Maybe that's the reason.
But it seems like if you can of course
right if you can predict the stock price
accurately,
you can make a fortune out of it.
And then.
They did so in a sharp ratio equal to 5.
That's this phenomenon.
I mean,
I hope they they they they accept
investments and then I definitely gonna
invest if they can guarantee like 5-5
times sharp ratio.
Pretty cool.
The article I also recommend as as a read
As for rating and then so you know a lot
of people are doing this.
I'll go trading and then you can find
some articles and you can definitely try
on your own. It's it's definitely.
A fun thing to try.
You gonna?
You gonna take a lot of your time coding
and then,
but it's definitely gonna be a really
good cool learning process for you.
OK.
I I do love it.
Any questions?
OK.
No question. Good.
So maybe you wanna ask one question like
why neural computation?
So people gonna tell you, right?
So then the reason we are we are building
those neural networks just to mimic how
our human brains are working, right.
The thing they didn't tell you is that.
By converting by learning how the neurons
are working in in human brains. Right.
So then.
They can.
They can expand those different layers of
neurons to to to to get more and more
complex model.
So then you know,
we as as human beings we have,
we have had and we have a brain.
So then we have a certain we have a
certain number of cells in our brain.
So that is a restriction for human beings,
right?
So they you have only as many.
Neurons in in your brain.
So an air building, some network.
So then you can, as a human,
you you you see you you see some
information you can digest it,
you can digest information,
you can process information.
You can analyze the information to
eventually whatever you want to have and
call it out.
Output right?
So then another output gonna gonna give
you some guidance to do whatever you
wanna do.
So this is how human beings working.
And then how the neural network is
working is I I want to build artificial
neurons.
That is pretty much mimic what the humans.
Neuron cells are are working in our brain
and then I can connect those.
Basic functions together,
so number one I may be doing like some
parallel computation and #2 is you know
those are little functions sitting in the
RAM, right?
Sitting in the ram of a computer and then
and then the humans can can build
unlimited unlimited amount of Rams, right?
So now for example,
like the HR100H800 chips that you heard
from NVIDIA.
So I can build as many as I want.
So then that's unlimited in theory.
Theoretically unlimited amount of Rams
I'm building.
So now I'm gonna have unlimited amount of
neurons and then I can connect them.
That'll be much complex eventually.
Right now be much complex than than any
human cell brain.
So then that'll be really providing a a
huge computational power.
To achieve whatever you want to achieve
or whatever that machine.
Whoever owns that machine wants to
achieve right?
So then I'm not gonna provide a lot of
computational computational power.
I'm not gonna achieve a lot of things
analytics in a more accurate way, right?
So the same finance say in healthcare.
Say it, you know.
Defense saying in design a lot of work
that can be achieved by.
By figured out how human brains are
working and mimic how human brain is
working and and building a much powerful
and bigger.
And.
Extendable.
Powers. Right. Upbringings.
So that's that's the reason why we are
building this and then and then and and
another way another another reason.
Beyond those four bullet points is.
And and even though we are building some
super complex uh network of those neurons
and then it seems like a human figure out
a way to automate to automatically.
Optimize how those neurons are working.
So this is some technique we're gonna
talk about in the end of this
presentation.
It's called back propagation.
So there's a pretty powerful you can run
in parallel in the pretty fast.
I mean to some degree.
Pretty fast and uh,
so then you can learn from whatever
happened.
So then you can you can.
You can make this, umm, artificial.
Uh. Bring more powerful.
Right. So then.
I will try to charge based on this
biological part and then you know I'm.
I'm I'm. I didn't buy.
Biology is not my major.
So then I try my best to touch it,
test them on.
This is the cortical neuron,
and then the neurons looks like this,
right?
So then you have and then you have
connections and they have a synaptic
knobs and then connected to another.
Cell right?
So then, so those are those are connected.
To the other cells and then this is
really how they transfer those
information, right?
So then the neurons have a single Axon on
that branches out. So.
Dendritic tree collects input from other
neurons, so.
You those are the little guys connecting,
not the neurons and transfer information,
and then they gonna digest,
analyze it and then pass the information
to another neuron.
So at least how I understand this, right?
So then.
This is this is how biologists really
understand, explore,
or figured out how the brain works, right?
So transfer this into a mathematical way,
right?
So those dendrites,
those are really the connection to other
dots.
No matter how you define,
it does say we we have defined some dots
over there and then there are some
function. There are some.
Biological pieces gonna analyze those
thoughts in a process it right?
So then, no matter how we process it,
you gonna process it and then this this
procession, we just call it a function.
Then no matter how you define the
function,
it just the function could be identity
function you,
meaning you didn't do anything about it
or you just.
Let's say you just plus one to it,
but you just add something to it, right?
So then and then you, you, you you pass.
The process the data to another neuron.
So that's how it works.
And then how how how it works as a part
of the system and then every single
system, every piece of a system is a.
It's a cell.
Looks like this on in in our brain. OK,
you can definitely read this this
introduction of how these kind of cells
working.
And this is exactly how this synaptic.
Synapses really transferring those those
information.
You definitely have.
This is this is from the previous neuron,
is from another neuron.
So then those are the cells.
Those are the pieces with information,
and they're gonna pass this information
through the synaptic gap to another one.
So then I will have some of the access
and eventually through this gap and then
have like a synaptic neurons and then I
gonna analyze it and.
Then this AXA high eventually gonna be.
Some different values.
I call it the eye,
but sometimes this ZI is actually ZJ is
actually XI.
It may or may not change those
information, right? So.
This is really how.
The the cells in our brain works.
Some questions like what rules govern the
synapses decide to change.
Not sure.
In mathematics,
like we can prove some some theories,
but not sure like how biologically they
decide what kind of information they
decide to change.
They decide to pass I I guess this is
really like the human decided and how the
human really give the comment to those
cell.
The transfer information I do not know,
maybe some new biological.
Articles really suggest the way how they
make the decisions,
but this is really how different neurons
are transferring from information from
each other.
And since we can have one neuron
connected another neuron and transferring
neur information,
so then we can really build some neural
computation.
Just looks like this is like a number of
neurons connecting to each other,
and then you just have a figure out a way
to to vis.
It and just look like this.
So each neuron received the information
from other neurons,
and it's really a network.
And then we gonna have a network working
together.
It's sort of like a tree,
but the difference to a tree is you you
have a starting point and so many data
that you need to,
and eventually you have a one.
Outcome so that is a sort of inverse of,
umm, of a tree.
And then the cortical neurons are
communicating using spikes,
and then the spikes are really
transferring information.
And then the impact of the neurons is due
is determined by a thing called a
synaptic weight.
And then we do have some mathematical
representation of the synaptic weights,
and then I I will talk about that later.
So then with those synaptic weight.
So then through this network of neurons
in our brain, so human beings can do,
can understanding different languages can
learn new languages.
Can can recognize numbers, right?
So then,
no matter how the other humans are
writing a same number,
you can recognize that it's kind of
powerful.
And then you can communicate your your
idea with the other people with other
people.
So then they still understand what you're
talking about.
Uh, for example, I have my handwriting.
I just write it down and then you guys
can read it and you can understand what
I'm talking about.
I'm teaching you guys because I'm
speaking English and then you know,
my English is imperfect.
But still you can can sort of understand
what I'm talking about to digest like
those kind of languages I'm using and
also even and and also you you travel to
different countries for example like me,
you travel to the country of Colombia.
I I don't speak.
I don't speak Spanish,
but you know with my.
Extremely poor Spanish.
I can still call and call communicate
with other people.
In Colombia? Well,
they they pretend to understand what I'm
talking about.
They're they're kind people.
But you know.
People have like.
Humans have different human habits,
not working neurons.
And then although they receive some
information the the weight,
the weight in your brain gonna tell them
what they should be focusing on when they
should not be focusing on.
So then,
even though I I I tell them I speak in
super Bad.
Super bad Spanish.
And they still know some of the words in
my sentence.
They want to focus on so then they sort
of understand what I'm talking about with
some degree of accuracy.
So then if you can replyn,
Nick can give me a response, right.
So then the wait in your brain,
you don't know that because you just.
Digest information.
And and analyze and information and
eventually give you output like in
millisecond.
But eventually there are still some
processing in your brain that.
Required is kind of synaptic weight to do
their job right.
So then definitely with this kind of
network?
They enjoy scalability and efficiency
like what I said,
you can always add neurons to it and to
make it bigger and bigger,
arguably bigger not of a neural network
is definitely getting more accuracy and
then getting more and more powerful.
And you can analyze more information,
right? So.
Then you have like billions.
You can have a billions of neurons and
then you have like.
Thousands of billions of weights because
it's really.
Combinations of, umm. Of neurons, right?
So then that's just make it super
powerful. Uh, as you can imagine,
that's why uh open AI introducing the
larger on the model.
They always say, OK,
I have so many billions of parameters.
So then in your network we we have some
of hundreds of 1000 parameters and then
they have.
10,
000 of each 100 chips and they can build
a much bigger neural network.
So then they can have.
Billions of billions of weights.
So make their model more and more
accurate, right?
So let me just give you 1 visualization
of a neural network so.
To to give you the points of this right.
So this is one thing I really like is a
Tensorflow Tensorflow neural network
playground, right?
So then let me just start with from the
beginning, right?
So then let's say.
Start with something really easy.
I have X1.
I have X2 so this is already my input.
We are X1 could be my X axis.
X2 is already mine.
Y axis and what I'm trying to do is I
have a group of orange dots.
I have another group of blue dots.
How can I separate them right?
So then this is really the problem?
And then I can say ratio of training data
to test data and then say it's.
70% right. So then I have.
Higher,
more training data I can have the batch
size equal to 60 and let's do that.
So OK.
So then I'm trying to say, hey,
I just have X1X2.
I want to separate those.
It should be easy, right? Because.
As for human being,
you draw a line between those like this,
so you can separate them so they can just
kick this.
Right. So then you can see this test loss?
The test loss is 0.
So then you perfectly separate this this
set of and this set of blue dogs.
Perfect ausa's gonna show test data and
test it is like this.
Awesome, right?
So now let's move into more complex
problem.
That's a separate those.
As for a human right,
so this is not hard job to do either.
So then you just this is sort of like a
two by two matrix, right?
So then you can separate them.
Let's see.
We can, if we only know X&Y axis,
how we separate those.
You see some light color here,
but it's really generating the colors.
As you can see, you only have XY.
Coordinates you.
You can either draw a line like this or
draw a line like this.
Or you could draw a line like this.
So you'll pretty much have 1/2 of the
points are unclassified or half the
points misclassified,
which is not so great.
Let me just stop it and show test data so
that you don't have a way to separate
those and then it's a test loss and
training loss.
It's always .5.
That means you miss 50% of the data.
So that means like using only like X1X2
as the two features to do this work is is
extremely hard.
So then what we can do is OK.
Let's just create one more feature like
X1X2 to do this work.
So if you know X1X2 looks like this X1X2.
The the the multiplication of X1X2 gonna
be exactly like this.
Yes.
So you now start having a feeling that
with those 3 features together,
it should be easy to separate those.
And then as you can see,
your gas is 100% correct, right?
So that you have task laws like less than
1%,
you show the test data and then you
pretty much follow the same distribution.
You know this is correct.
And then from this you can see.
Pretty much this XY coordinates are not
helping.
The only the the main,
the main feature that driving is nearly
perfect result is this product of X1X2.
Let us even get rid of X1X2 separately.
Let us run this.
See that is to prove my point.
You have this multiplication together.
You can have a nearly perfect prediction
and classification of those tasks.
Here OK.
That's awesome.
So then we move from here to here by
adding one feature that can solve the
problem.
And now let's just moving one layer of
difficulty level.
So then let's say we we gonna separate
this.
You know,
this is getting really hard because As
for a human being,
we know that you you need to draw a
circle around this blue.
The set of blue dogs and then you can
separate them.
Let's say if we only have X1X2 and
multiplication of.
Those,
it'll be really hard to separate them.
As you can see it is it is difficult
because doing this, no matter how how,
how.
Hard.
You're doing this work and then assigning
different weights. You're missing like.
Less than 50% of the dots,
without being correctly classified. OK.
So then,
so then we can follow the similar idea as
before, right?
So then we may think.
This X1X2 and X1X2 are not sufficient.
That is great.
Umm 2 more features X1 squared and X2
square.
Introducing some nonlinearity here.
I see this.
Boom, right?
So then and then adding more features
always help you to to achieve the goal,
right?
So then here's the task.
Data is is correctly classified after
1000.
Pretty good.
And then the MIS classified data is less
than 1% chance.
So I I think there's a really good result,
really good, right?
So then,
so then that's let's do the last one,
this one.
This one gonna be really hard, right?
So then.
Even for a human being,
how we separate those you have to draw
these circles around here to separate
those two side of two set of points,
right?
So then that's just who those things
together and see whether or not you can
separate those.
Apparently no.
With all those features we have tried
before, they give you .5 loss, right?
So then I just follow our previous
thought, then just add more features,
signals, sign,
see whether or not it gonna help us.
It doesn't seem to help, right?
So then it just show that you know,
then you just wait and you just training.
OK.
We're sort of convinced that is it's not
helping us.
The loss is even bigger than .5.
It's not helpful.
So then it just make up feel,
feel like adding more features and then
there is only so many functions that we
can try and we already tried squared
polynomial function. We tried X1X2.
And sine function we can add a whole sign,
but you know eventually it won't move the
needle.
We can try the log function.
It won't help so then.
So then it's really not helping, right?
So then so then that's the bottleneck we
are facing before to separate those dots.
Maybe you you feel like why are we?
Why do we have to separate those thoughts?
OK, this is 1 extreme example right?
Something in real life you may you may
not even able to see.
Those dots, those, those,
those target you want to classify, right?
So then this is good example that you can
at least see it.
So let's see if we just start with.
X1X2 those initial features and XY
coordinates, can we just add maybe one?
Add some neurons to do some exercise to
help us separate those.
Maybe we should try this one.
So we can just add 1 hidden layer and
then there is 2 neurons,
so then no's gonna be some functions,
some basic functions that we gonna touch
base later. They're gonna.
They're gonna do some calculations here.
Here, remember we only rely on Axon 1X2.
We cannot separate those two points.
Let's just add 11 hidden layer.
Once some functions in between and then
the metric is we are starting getting to
separate those.
Remember,
in a previous exercise we we have the
test loss equals .
5 and this this one we can separate some
of those.
And then this loss is much smaller than
than without this layer, right?
And and that's why how we mimic it.
So let's maybe add more neurons in here.
No, it's on.
As you can see,
it's trying its best to to mimic umm to
mimic the region here and then we have.
We only use the two impose.
That we know XY coordinates and you can
just achieve like this amount of MIS
misclassification, which is good.
What we can try is if you don't want to
add more neurons and then you can change
the learning rate to this level.
Let's try that again.
You're gonna be much slower.
But you know you change your learning
rate to smaller so that you can identify
some local maximum minimum.
As you can see,
the list 4 neurons and the only raw input
of XY coordinates.
It can separate those points and if you
are show the the test data is awesome,
right?
So then, no,
we don't quite know what those four
neurons are doing.
But it just simplify the problem.
We can just adding adding like the hidden
layers,
adding neurons and going to solve the
problem for us is this feeling is so
fantastic. OK.
So now we've done this.
Let's try this guy.
Let's still try the same neural network.
OK,
this one got me a little bit hard because
no matter how we try,
gonna be looks like this because we for
those functions really some linear
combinations of those.
So then you got stuck at .3 loss.
OK.
What you can do is we can just add more
neurons and see if that can help.
From what I'm seeing,
this is doing the work perfectly, so then.
You know you have those dots and then
done so then adding more neurons,
they gonna do their calculation.
So then you can achieve the work.
So then the humans,
you guys do not have to figure it out.
What kind of features you wanna add?
And this neuron's gonna do the work
automatically for you.
And those way it's gonna be automatically
determined by some technique we're gonna
touch base later,
and then you can achieve this work.
It's perfect, right?
Let's just move to the last one, this guy.
Let's see if this one will work.
Now from this chart,
the loss is actually increasing.
So that's an indicator of it's not
solving this problem, so we can stop now.
So then we have only one hidden layer.
So then maybe you can add another hidden
layer.
Still add like 6 neurons in here and see
whether or not you're gonna solve the
problem.
But this loss is kept increasing.
Oh now decreasing now here.
Let's see.
Is slowly decreasing, which is awesome.
He's still gonna misclassify some of the
points.
But what we can do is we can change this
learning rate even smaller and add one
other hidden layer.
It gonna be really slow unfortunately.
Sometimes that you're gonna see this test
loss like unchanged. You know, in a in a,
in a in a trading process.
This is really like desperate for you
guys.
And then if you wanna train any newer
network model,
this is a moment that you need to go some.
And then drink some water and then go to
restroom and then and.
And if you do have like.
Something. Then you're gonna pray for.
And then just this is the moment that you
can adapt to do that.
And then I I read open AI data scientist
diary or something that they're his post.
He said that, you know,
he always pray for merchand learning God
and every single morning pray for good
luck.
He should be working better than just
happen. Like at 2 hidden layers.
Because even the two hidden layers
already achieved some level.
So then that's just why you may be just
take some time.
As well, we have seen before,
so then a lot is getting higher higher.
But eventually,
when we when the model figure.
When the model figure the way out and
then gonna drop fastly. Let's see.
OK. We just if we reach like 10,
000 it doesn't change.
And then we gotta stop it.
I figured out another way out.
OK.
So it didn't.
It didn't converge.
So then just start over and then let's
just add more features to help it.
Let's see if this is this one really
helps or not.
At least from beginning is working as
intended.
So I think there's a good moment to stop
it, right?
So then as you can see.
You pretty much connect all the the blue
dots together and then this this region
for the orange dots.
So it's not perfect,
but at least like there's only 3% of
misclassification.
So this is adding more features to it to
enhance it and during the break I can
definitely try to use X1X2O coordinates
to do it.
Maybe just give some more time to those
neurons and it can.
It can handle the work.
But as you can see,
adding more what is driving a good value?
Adding more features.
Adding more those neurons to do this work
and then we can achieve some really
complex work with this system.
So now this that is sort of mimicking
what our brains are working and it is
kind of a neural computation network and
and definitely you can enjoy the
scalability because you can always by by
simple click you can have a one.
Set a team of of neurons to to your
network.
It's definitely efficiency,
because in 5 minutes within 5 minutes,
or actually two or three minutes,
you already have some good results
question.
What do you recommend doing APCA before
starting the newer network?
Analysis Or what do you recommend?
Just keeping the raw data as it is and
doing.
I.
I don't recommend.
I don't recommend doing PCA.
The reason is a PCA.
You gonna lose a lot of information from
doing the PCA.
So then.
You can just do the the.
I mean in real life, right?
In your real life, you need to define.
You need to determine what kind of neural
network you want to use.
Is this already like any dependency on
historical data?
If you do you you'd better use RNN.
And then there's some different types of
neural network we're gonna introduce next
week.
And then I will say just use whatever raw
data you're you're doing because the
errors will be compounding you have PCA.
It won't be accurate.
Yep.
OK.
So it's good.
The flexibility and speed, of course.
So then so then.
We next job is we want to build this kind
of super fancy network of of neurons.
So then,
so then we need to start with some basic
assumptions and this is how we idealize
those neurons, right?
So then we need to to build this complex
system. We need to have some simple,
easy building bricks.
Because we wanna build a big building and
then we wanna build.
We wanna have those building bricks.
Handy. Umm.
That's why we wanna idealize those
neurons.
So then we want the neurons to be as
simple as a different function that can
help us to do some simple work,
and then we hope that with those simple
function defined by us and then you can
achieve a lot of complex things just like.
Minecraft, you know,
you have only those bricks and then you
can build a different system.
And that's really the that the idea we're
using using here.
Is gonna start with some easy work.
Easy function.
Some easy function like the you know the
the linear functions.
Some functions that you have to learn.
Through your middle school and high
school, or even elementary school,
so that it's not as fancy as you know the
integrals or something that you learn in
college.
It's really simple functions.
Mathematics gonna be a powerful partner
to the neural network because for
mathematicians,
our work is to prove that you know you
have a thought that you can use a simple
functions to mimic to to simulate the
complex functions.
And there is definitely gonna be some
mathematical theory to.
Prove that in in a space called
functional space you can have the
fundamental.
You can have simple functions and a
simple functions can.
Approximate those complex functions.
See the way that.
The the difference between those
simulation and a real function is
actually negligible.
You can actually ignore the differences
and then there are some math theory
behind seeing that supporting these kind
of idea.
Here is the neural network history and
starting from 1943.
There is a macro log piece model and
going to high beam learning and then
perceptron.
On development and and going through the
CNN in 1989 in deep learning and it just
only finish around 2020 and now we have
the Transformers.
And then we have the large long career
models, right?
So that this is everything is a based on.
Neural networks.
So in 1943, there's Michael Locke.
Pete model is directly mimicking how this.
Cell synaptic cell is working.
In in human brain.
Uh, how this artificial neurons there?
There's a design of this artificial
neuron, the next slide you're gonna see.
The design is quite simple.
But it's a very good,
important starting point.
That we learn.
We Start learning from our brain and
design machines, mimicking the brain.
So we have those,
the inputs and into this kind of.
Die drugs and then do some.
Do something in between and send us like
X1X22, then next neuron.
This is basic idea behind.
The very first model.
And here is how the very first model is
working. And by the way.
This kind of charts are quite common in
neural network or any system.
We will be learning and teaching and and
using in the future.
But I just got used to those kind of
engineering charts.
You gonna providing you a lot of
information, but I I do understand.
I I spent some time getting used to it,
reading those chart for some people it
could be easy.
For some people it could be hard.
So what we're doing is we do have some
inputs.
It's X1X2 to XN.
Those are the inputs values and then I
add another DOS that.
Is a constant one in addition to all the
raw values that a user provided.
That you me provided the reason is adding
this one.
I can add intercept for example the
intercept in the linear function.
What this 1943 model is doing is they
just directly sum up all the inputs,
right?
So then all the inputs and then call with.
So this value is just summation of all
the inputs. The the goal of of this model.
Why they design this model is they have a
bunch of numbers and they want to tell
whether or not output is.
Was he in a Class A or Class B?
So this is a really classification model.
What they did,
they just sum up all the numbers
associated with one bucket.
11 item they wanna classify and then once
those are higher than some threshold they
just pull this one other one is put a 0.
So this is as easy as that.
The the the idea of of this is you can
think of.
You know.
Different, different toys, right?
So then so for for my daughter.
She loves to have, like, some video games.
So then there are some toys for kids.
Could be the legal toys, right?
Legal toys.
It could be $10 and $20.
So and some we do.
Could be.
40-50 dollars and then and then you can
consider that as the input, right?
So then you wanna know whether or not
you're in the general twice session,
or you're in the video game session.
What you can do is you just you you
collect all the all the items in that
session and Add all the prizes together.
And then you say, hey,
if that price is higher?
The the summation of price is higher than
$1000.
I call it video game session.
Otherwise I call it a twice session for
kids.
So that's sort of the idea behind the
scene.
So then I don't care.
I I just pick the same number of item
together.
I I say pay 10 items per each session.
I do not know which is which.
But I can just pick ten of them and I sum
up their prices,
and that is the only number I gonna rely
on to determine this is a twice or this
is.
Video games, right?
So then as you can see,
it's a pretty simple model.
It could work.
For example,
if you were dealing with some you know,
inference wise,
it's definitely much cheaper than the
video games.
However,
if you go to some 5-6 year old twice
session, those are,
you know similar prize as the video games
sometimes.
So then the summation of price may not
help you decide whether or not you are
sitting at infant twice session or five
six year old,
twice session or video game session.
But it is really good starting point,
right?
So then,
but the summation of the prize is is is
only number they rely on to determine
where they stand at,
and that is the 1943 model.
So then in 194049 they have a high BM
learning.
So this is really mimicking the those
kind of information how the information
in the transferring from 1 neuron to
another neuron.
The only change they they start they
start defining defining weights where the
weights they consider.
OK the weights change should be
correlated to the input information and.
Output information and then they they,
they, they.
Creatively create a one learning rate
associated with.
Is that and this is a formula.
So that's sort of contribution they've
they've done.
The remarkable model actually help us to
this neural network error is 1958
perceptron model.
I just found some article from this
Cornell University stories news because
some of the professors are actually from
Cornell University and I can share this
article with you guys.
Uh, quite interesting.
Yeah.
So you can actually read this article
about this professor perceptron.
So they have done that.
They have done that 60 years ago.
Well, this 2019 sixty years ago, right?
OK, so you can actually hear the story,
which is really cool story for for them
to do. And then here's the research.
And then there's some article introducing
some perceptron back then.
Back to 2058.
Definitely older than everyone in this
classroom,
but you know they're trying to mimic that
human brain.
So then that's was the idea back then,
right?
So then and this Frank?
Robin is A is a designer of of this this
idea and then it's getting closer and
closer to the modern neural network.
So we have some point.
And then eventually you want to use this.
To to do the calculation.
Eventually you have the output signal R1
to RN.
So it is.
And then they say it is organization of a
biological brain,
and then it just they just create some
artificial brain using the the circuits
and using those biers which is awesome.
But then.
And there are some metal to recognize his
contribution from IEEE organization.
You can definitely read his article after
class.
It's fun article to read and this and
also this perceptrons really help the US
to achieve a lot of National Defense work,
right?
So then you can definitely help us to
identify a lot of.
For example, submarines or different?
Items on A/C and then from the Soviet
Union. Back then,
it's definitely gonna utilize by the US
Navy.
So it's a,
it's a pretty cool technology used back
to two 1958 the perceptual model.
Is definitely more or less look like the
current neural network models.
You still have those input and then in
the previous model the high bn learning.
So then people Start learning that I need
to.
I need to instead of sum of sum of them
up.
I need to start defining something called
weight instead of like arithmetic
summation of those in of those numbers.
Let's just do some weighted sum.
So then I can learn whether or not I'm
I'm dealing with inference twice or or
five six year old twice or or video games.
So then with those.
With those.
Ways being defined,
I can calculate the weighted sum and I
can define a function.
Where if that weight is a positive,
I call it. One is weighted,
sum is negative.
I call with zero so so where the weight
is, you know,
as a human I can assign some sums,
some some ways to. For example, if I'm in.
Switch video games and then there are so
many different games like Kirby game or
something that's pretty expensive.
I bought for my daughter.
So then you can definitely assign those
weights higher weights to those games,
and then you can sign you know, higher.
Highways to some classic legal game.
Legal games.
So then you can you can.
You can use them to tell whether or not
you are standing in the video game
session versus the 5-6 or leeeo session.
So then this is definitely the idea
behind the scene.
And how they assign the weights is really
random.
Guess and then or or they they do have
some training data.
So then they can just learn from the
training data to do to guess those ways.
There are certainly two ways to.
Code and Co.
Find optimal set of weights and then
we're gonna talk about that later.
But perceptual model is very similar to
the current neural network model.
Right. So then.
Just a quick question.
Do you think that what kind of model we
have already covered look extremely
similar to this perceptron model?
There's actually one more that we have
already covered that looks very similar
to this one.
Which model is that?
Yeah, so, so the model I'm mentioning.
Is, you know,
if we change the sign function to
exponential function or or even more is a
SIM.
This perception perceptron model turns to
be a logistic regression.
So that's what I'm sort of talking about.
So then for logistic regression,
the only difference is we're still gonna
do this.
Sum the weighted summation.
We're gonna change.
We're gonna replace is assign function to
a sigmoid function and then we never ask
bigger than.
Whenever this, this,
this summation of those summation bigger
than .
5 we're gonna assign to 1 to this and
then when when this this guy less than .5,
we're gonna assign to 0.
That's the difference between the
logistic regression and the perceptual
model.
But structure wise same structure but
different function we were using.
K.
So before we move to the main components
of a neural network, any questions so far?
Hopefully so far isn't that difficult,
right?
OK.
Let's take a 15 minute break.
So we come back on 656.
So then we we start defining a neural
network. OK,
I will see you guys in 15 minutes.
All right, we'll come back.
Share my screen.
Still reported.
OK.
So main components of neural network,
usually neural neural network looks like
this.
So then you have input layer,
you have a hidden layer is a one or two a
three or four that have output layer
right? So then so each.
Circle in those hidden layers called the
node or neuron.
So then it could be.
Transformation.
It could be a linear transformation.
It will be activation function.
And so like the the biological neurons.
So it's doing something right.
So then, so this is a perceptron.
And then we do have a hidden layer that
is just doing a weighted summation of the
input and applying that sign function,
right?
So it's a positive if the weighted
summation is a positive and then you
assign one or zero.
So that is your output.
So then this input layer hidden layer.
And and output layer.
So the input layer is I what you can see
those are your input.
The output layer is also another layer
that you can sort of. See.
Those are the outputs.
A lot of times that the hidden layer can
be, uh,
really complex and then you don't usually
see what's happening in the hidden layer.
So I understand that business want to
avoid any black box.
Being used right? So they want to know.
Given the the input,
how the how that output was generated,
that's going to be extremely hard for
newer network.
In in tree model at least you can see.
This tree structure and then you can
certainly tell how.
How that tree is doing either regression
or classification decisions for neural
network it's it's it's going to be
extremely hard to.
Output whatever the hidden layer is doing,
the different ways are doing so the
something you need you guys eventually
need to help business with is to explain.
The new network so that the better
expectation you need to set with the
business is as long as the output is
accurate and then that's that'll be it.
You know the the.
It's it's not quite.
Possible to?
To to to, to generate, and to visualize.
And then even if you can do that,
there's definitely some Python packages
help you.
To plot the hidden layers.
There are just so many numbers in between
and that you wouldn't know to replicate
the calculation.
So that'll be really hard for for neural
network it's a it's a black box.
And then when we touch base on the deep
learning that will be.
A.
A deeply black box.
So super hard to explain.
So then this feed forward, Anor network,
is very widely used,
and then whenever you Google neural
network,
you pretty much see these kind of picture,
right?
So then you have layer.
You have 1-2 hidden layers and they have
output layer.
And and and deep learning is really like
you have the hidden layer more complex
and then you have.
A.
A much bigger and two number of hidden
layers.
So that's a deep learning.
So those kind of functions or or neurons
in between can help us to.
Analyze non linear data.
As you can see for for example like those
classification.
Examples we've seen in in Tensorflow web
page and then and then we do have some
recurrent networks, so one famous.
Recurrent network is called RNN,
so so recurrent neural networks are
really assuming that.
Some historical data can affect the
future information, the future results.
So then you in in in your network.
You cannot just ignore the historical
data you you just need to have a loop.
To to to taking the historical data into
account.
So for time series it would definitely a
good.
Use case for for RNN so.
And those are long long term short memory
model.
Lstm model is also another way that we
can use on the time series models and and
we can attach based.
We can talk about the the RNN over there
when we talk about.
The recurrent networks.
So here is a one example of.
Eliyah Sukaver is talking about RNN.
I think it's a back then 2016 or
something.
So he gonna he's actually.
Is a Co founder of open AII do I?
I found this video on YouTube and then
you can if he's showing you guys showing
the audience like they're they're work
using RNN at open AI back then.
So it's kind of interesting.
So then I just want to share this video
with you guys and see if play.
See your floor.
Yeah. Thank you very much.
Thank you for your just quick chat.
Can you guys hear it?
Is it OK to hear it?
We can hear it.
Yeah. Yep. We could do it.
I saw that you can just watch on YouTube.
Here we go.
Thank you for your attention.
Got a small typo.
You know last last second. Oh, by the way,
this is the open AI logo back then.
It's really funny to see their logo like
this, but you know in the title. Yeah.
So this is really 16 minute presentation,
OK.
So.
I'd like to begin by telling you about
the open AI universe.
So the goal.
So the open share universe is a platform
for benchmarking and developing the
ability of agents to solve a wide variety
of new problems that are difficult.
At the present,
the Open Air Universe includes a very
large number of computer games.
Is a video playing.
Yes, great.
So it includes a large number of computer
games which includes these.
It includes a large number of browser
tasks which are shown in this slide where
in a browser task you need to read the
instructions and then perform them,
and these instructions often include
things like.
Feel a certain form in a certain way,
or manipulate the objects in a specific
way.
We also including real websites,
for example,
in this case we have the task of booking
an airline ticket on the airline's
website.
And finally,
we are in the process of integrating a
MODIS numbers.
Oh, by the way.
Those booking ticket,
those kind of thing can be done currently
still by opening I model.
But really,
a genetic approach can do this work for
you,
so they sort of achieve what they want,
whatever they want to achieve back then.
But it's only funny to see, like,
open AI is dealing with those kind of
video games, because right now they don't.
They're not dealing with video games.
They're just dealing with one single
model.
One the airlines website and finally we
are in the process of integrating a
modest number of extremely complex
environments that include
three-dimensional games in large worlds.
It includes even 3 dimensional protein
folding.
So the key feature of universe that makes
it an appealing platform is that it
provides.
Easy programmatic access to any existing
computer program. The way it works,
roughly speaking,
is that the program runs somewhere.
The universe infrastructure takes the
pixels of this program and sends it to
the agent, and then the agent responds.
By sending the keyboard commands and the
mouse commands. By the way, this is still.
This is still the current approach.
High level 10,
000 mile above ground kind of approach
idea.
You you have whatever environment is sort
of like Internet environment,
you have the information and then you
have the large amount of models who
receive those information you,
you code it, AG.
The agents using what your command and
then also the information the agent.
And then to mimic all the keyboard and
and mouse and to have some information
back to.
To to the purpose that you want the agent
to to to accomplish, right?
So then it's sort of like similar
approach that.
Lidia just presented like about 10 years
ago.
But you can now see that an
infrastructure like this allows our
agents to interact with any existing
computer programs.
So I want to say a few words now about
the current state.
States of universe.
At present we have hundreds of fully
integrated environments where the fully
integrated I mean that it is possible to
do reinforcement learning on them with
today's algorithms.
We also have over 1000 of environments
which are integrated but which do not
have a reward function.
These many of these environments have
demonstrations and they are useful for
invasive reinforcement learning or for
behavioral cloning training.
And we will soon have more,
even very large and complex environments.
So what's the goal?
The goal of the universe.
We want to build an agent that can solve
new and difficult problems quickly,
and we want to measure how far along we
are on this path.
If we can measure how far along we are,
we can iterate and make incremental
progress towards the goal.
So next I want to spend a little bit of
time talking about the technical details
of universe.
So a program is launched.
In a lightweight virtual machine called
the Docker container a docker container.
And so.
What we do is that the virtual machine
interacts with the process using the VMC
remote desktop protocol.
So this protocol sends pixels from the
environment to the agent,
and this protocol also determines how the
actions,
the key Princess and the mouse commands
are being sent from the agent to the
environment.
One thing that is nice about this
infrastructure is that the environment
and the agent.
They run on different processes and they
communicate over the network,
but the network is a very general concept,
which means that the environment and the
agent can be on the same machine.
They can be within the same local network
and they can even be on different
computers and.
Could communicate over the Internet,
for example,
the environment could be on the cloud
while the agent can be on your local
machine. Now,
while this would introduce some latency
to the interaction between the agent and
the environment.
So for example,
we've tested some environments where
which were running on Amazon while the
agent was running on our cluster as is
shown in this figure.
And what you observed is that when you
have a batch of 32 environments,
it takes 110 milliseconds for the pixels
to arrive to the agent.
And it takes 30 milliseconds for the
actions to arrive back to the environment
from the agents.
So one thing that we've done as we were
working on universe.
Was to integrate a game that many of us
at open AI like.
It is called Slicer dot IO.
Is strongly strongly recommended.
It's a little fun and we just.
Included and we ran a simple
reinforcement learning algorithm on it
and we were able to get the results that
you see here.
So it's nice to see that we can just
easily integrate environments and run our
algorithms on it.
Another notable fact about Universe is
that we've been able to convince a large
number of game publishers to allow us to
release their environments.
Their games within in the framework of
universe,
it's funny to see that in video was a
game publisher Act.
I.
I I wouldn't.
Put.
Our whatever those other companies are in
Microsoft.
Yeah. So they have some of the games,
but I don't know. It's kind of funny.
So the reason this is a sensible thing to
do is because if you look at the things
that humans been humans do right now.
You look at our lives,
we spend a pretty big chunk of them in
front of the computer.
We spend a large portion of our time in
the digital world.
And universe allows agents to become
first class citizens of the same digital
world that we inhabit,
and so that means that it is the kind of
place where we could really measure how
good our agent is at general problem
solving.
A general world knowledge and.
Just how?
Generally it is as opposed to being
specialized.
So concurrently to the development of
universe,
we were also working on a bunch of
research and I want to highlight this
specific research project which is called
real squared which is fast reinforcement
learning by slow reinforcement learning
and most of the work was done by Rocky
Duan who.
In this photo.
And the question that real squared tries
to answer is what's the difference
between humans?
And between reinforcement learning
algorithms,
how can it be that humans are so much
faster?
Can we articulate some of the differences?
Well,
obviously humans have excellent data
efficiency.
Humans make very good use of the data.
And in addition,
humans have reached prior experience
solving lots of different difficult
problems.
Prior experience can be easily
represented with the distribution over
environments,
so here I'm showing a subset of the
universe environments that I showed
earlier on and you could say this is the
you could imagine and this would be a set
of tasks that our agent has been Exp.
To in the past,
and so you could imagine learning things
like the nature of rules or maybe the
appearance and dynamics of objects,
typical ways in which control works,
how scoring works and so on.
And so how do we do it?
How do we benefit from this experience?
If you have a distribution over
environments,
how do we take the knowledge in those
environments and embed them into the
reinforcement learning algorithm?
And the solution is,
in short is to train a recurrent neural
network policy to solve many environments
simultaneously.
In other words,
meta learning in reinforcement learning.
Let me explain the idea to you,
which is pretty simple.
What you really want is to have a
recurrent neural network policy.
That.
Should be able to.
You should be able to do the following
with it. You take it,
you put it into one of your random and
you took you place it into one of your
environments, which is chosen at random,
and then you so and then you run it on
this environment and.
You measure how well you do so.
Literally the performance measure of this
recurrent neural network policy is how
well does it solve.
Environments drawn from your environment
distribution.
Notice that in this case the recurrent
neural network gets both the observation
from the environment and the reward.
The recurrent neural network needs to
know the reward because it needs to know
what the task is.
And so that means if you succeed in
training such a recurrent neural network,
it will be a kind of a meta learner.
It will be a very specialized
reinforcement learning algorithm that is
good at a very limited set of
environments.
So in practice,
how would it look like you take your RNN
policy and you let it interact with one
environment for a while?
You run an episode with one environment,
then you run an episode with a different
environment,
and then you run another episode with a
different environment still.
And so in practice,
you will have a slower reinforcement
learning algorithm as you'll be training
the recurrent neural network policy.
So it will shepherd it's way to become
good at solving those environments and be
a meta learner.
So I should say.
Meta learning with neural networks has a
pretty rich history,
and as many of us have already noticed,
there is quite a bit of mutual
information between the different papers
that have been published and for example,
there's a paper by Wang Garal on learning
to reinforcement learning, which has.
Also been submitted to Icla 2016.
It's a DeepMind paper which had very
similar ideas and even quite similar
experiments.
In addition to this paper on meta
learning with reinforcement learning,
there has been substantial prior work on
meta learning.
Neural networks and methadon in general.
The ideas are.
Not that new.
The novelty here would be to say that we
really want to make it work with
reinforcement learning.
There's been work on, for example,
meta learning for parameter optimization
and rycovich are learning to learn by
gradient descent by gradient descent.
There was one shot learning the memory
augmented neural networks.
La Rochelle, 2008.
Zero data learning of new tasks.
Younger et al,
with also with also Steph Hawk riders as
well.
Learning back propagation.
There's been a paper by by Jorge Schmidt,
who from 93 a neural network that embeds
it on meta values,
and I've seen a paper by Chalmers from
1990 with experiments.
The evolution of learning experiment in
genetic connectionism.
I want to say a little bit more about.
How the recurrent how met learning in a
real looks like so in the top in the top
panel in the top rectangle you will see
the hidden states of the recurrent neural
network.
And you're going to run the recurrent
neural network on one episode of your
environment.
Then you run it on another episode of
Your Environment.
Then you replace the environment.
You go to a different environment that
you want to solve with the same RNN,
and you also reset your sever the hidden
state when you switch environment you
serve with a hidden state,
the hidden state of the RNN is start over.
So this.
Is basically. This is the formulation.
It's extremely simple.
There isn't much to it.
And now the slow reinforcement learning
algorithm is trust.
Policy optimization.
But Schumann, Adop in 2015.
We use this algorithm.
So now I want to spend just a little bit
of time talking about evaluation.
So first evaluation was a multi armed
bandits. The thing about those,
the interesting thing about multi armed
bandits is that they have asymptotically
optimal algorithms.
So in these experiments,
which I don't know how well you can see
them, but I'll just summarize the results.
When you compete against the
asymptotically optimal algorithms.
And you train your meta learner RNN on
short episodes.
You only have a short time horizon.
You're able to outperform the the optimal
algorithm,
which is asymptotical asymptotic.
So it needs a lot of data on the left
when your amount of data when you give it
100 rounds in the middle then you match
the asymptotically optimal algorithm and
on the right when you.
Give 500 times steps.
You begin to underperform to the
asymptotically optimal algorithm.
We found the same pattern when you looked
at tabular Mdps.
With tabular Mdps.
You also similarly have certain
specialized algorithms,
and again we will observe that when the
episode is short,
when the time horizon is short,
we manage to outperform it as the time
horizon increases, we match it,
and eventually we stop.
We start doing a little bit worse and the
reason for that is of course simple
reinforcement learning is a long time
horizons is difficult.
Now finally I want to show you a little
bit more to tell you a little bit more
about our larger task which involves 3
dimensional navigation.
In this case,
the goal of the meta learning is to learn
to solve random mazes.
And what do you need to what we are
trying to achieve is the following.
At first, when you see the new maze,
it's never seen it before.
So if you'll see a new maze for the first
time.
Yeah,
it will see a new ways for the first time.
It will try to find the item in a certain
item,
but then in the next episode it knows
where it is.
So if you find it much faster and I'll
show you the video.
So look at the right side. See,
it will walk around and it's, you know,
it tries to find its way.
It's looking it's searching.
And now it found it.
And the next time around,
it will immediately find it because it
remembers where it is.
So this is a form of meta learning,
replied to a fairly narrow domain.
We also found that it makes mistakes.
So in this case you will see that.
Doesn't realize that it hasn't turned to
a specific corridor which is passed by
several times.
So it's not the easiest thing to train.
The real point here also,
and it's pretty sensitive.
So I would say that the conclusion here
is that.
Meta learning has the potential to be
really powerful.
We haven't really solved meta learning
and by that I mean we haven't come up
with.
So then he just talking about one use
case of the RNN.
I hope you guys heard some key words that
he mentioned that you know the gradient
descent is definitely using that and.
Then those are the back propagation.
He's definitely using that.
So then those are really good examples.
And then also it's really fun to see that,
you know, #1 open AI logo looks like this.
And then also like I I feel open wasn't
doing what they were,
they were planning to do and then they
just switch GE.
To another different model.
Which is kind of cool to see,
but anyways it could be one example and
then you can definitely search for for
for Nidia is definitely Co founder of
open AI.
So lot of cool things that he has done,
OK.
Yeah. So.
Jump back to to our basic neural network
now now.
RNN yet right?
So then we we still wanna define the ways
and biases, OK?
So remember,
I told you guys I added X 0 equal to one.
This is really one term I added.
So not raw raw input from the user, right?
So then I will have a weight AW0
associated with this.
Associated with one.
Right. So then this,
this W zero is going to be called bias
and all the WS for example W1 associate
with X1W2 associate with X2 and WN
associate with XN and back and forth.
So those top views of social with a real
raw input, those are called weights.
So then this is a really simplified.
Or or or or simplest model that we've
seen this.
This this model.
And then we only have one set of W123
ends.
But if you go back to this model, right?
So then you can consider each connection
you have Aw.
W so then you will be.
You will be have like so many different
WS.
So then the WS is really a long.
Array of umm of numbers umm and those WS
are definitely can be negative.
Because you may have like a negative
weight of social wisdom.
So then those are the ways that you know.
Corresponding to each input layer, right?
So then.
Just keeping in mind that we we we start
hash based on the weights and then when
we talk about the the large language
models, right?
So then we'll be using the weights to do
another thing.
So then we'll be using the ways to do the
embedding.
So then you'll see that how the way how
we convert English word.
Or or different words in different
languages to numbers.
We're not actually using.
We we can we we have a variety of ways to
define those embedding coefficients.
Basically converting a language to
numbers or list of numbers.
So the way we decide to use eventually
going to be the weights of that gigantic
neural network.
So then this is some some point we're
gonna talk later.
But just keep in mind the weights are
just weights.
And then you can do the weighted uh
weighted summation like this.
Is quite simple idea.
Now you have those weights.
Activation function,
so activation function like what I said,
we have already seen one activation
function before that activation function
that that that model is a logistic
regression in the logistic regression we
were using this function right?
So 1 / 1 + E to the minus X and then back.
Then we will talk about the logistic
regression.
But I told you guys, it's all function.
So the one of the very famous.
Activation functions that.
And we use in your network.
So in we have so many different,
uh common activation functions.
Those are.
This is definitely not the full list of
activation functions you you've seen.
You will be seeing uh in your network,
but those are really common ones like
linear activation function. Sigmoid. Uh.
Definitely we are not a stranger to
sigmoid function just like this.
Sigmoid function is you have a two class
classification.
Then the problem to solve,
and then you're happily gonna use a
sigmoid function and a value function.
Rectified a linear unit,
and then we're gonna see this function.
This one is a code like almost.
Popular activation function we use
especially for regression problems.
Hyperbolic tangent function the softmax
function and softmax function is perhaps
a code and code most popular function we
use for classification.
Right.
So then we have so many different
activation functions that we can use in
neural network and then those are their
math formula.
We can just go through 1 by 1.
So linear neurons is so they have a
linear activation function.
It's super simple.
It's just a linear function.
So for example,
if you have X1 here and the Y = 1 + 2 X
and then that's sort of the computation
you were doing with.
In a neuron,
and then you're just apply a linear
function on top of it,
and then whatever that bias which is the
B and and the weights which are those W's,
how those guys are determined to optimize
your outcome and that that is through the
backpropagation but.
As you know,
at this at the beginning you can just
randomly select your bias and randomly
select your your your weights right?
So then.
It just doing this is a weighted.
Summation for you.
So quite simple function.
Another one is a binary threshold.
So what is this?
So the binary threshold is.
If I do have some Yu bigger than 0 or
bigger than some specific a number some
threshold, I call it one.
Otherwise I call it 0.
So that is a binary threshold function is
doing.
So for example,
if you decide to introduce.
Use bias to this function.
So then I can just say, hey,
if this is Z is bigger than 0,
I call it one.
Otherwise I call it zero.
If you doing this.
This is really like the 1943 model where
we're introducing,
but this is more a little bit complex
than that for that model.
All the W's are one.
All the all the weights are are,
are are the same number one or the 2nd
way.
If you do not want to introduce if you do
not want to introduce the.
The bias.
So then you're you're you're just
basically doing the way this you weighted
sum of those inputs and then you have
eventually have to determine the
threshold and bigger than that threshold,
you have one,
otherwise you have a 0 effectively you
compare the 1st way the 2nd way this.
Theta threshold is actually the the minus
B in the 1st way.
So their they're equivalent.
This function is basically saying hey,
I have a threshold.
If your whatever way how you summarize
your your input values.
If that value bigger than my threshold I
call you one.
Otherwise they call it 0.
That's that's more.
That's pretty much how this binary
threshold neuron is working.
OK.
This value function.
So often you're gonna use this function,
so it's really like you have summation of.
This is bigger than equal to 0 if Z
bigger than equal to 0, it is what it is.
However, if this guy less than 0.
You just zero it out.
So that that's it you just do.
A weighted average.
Oh, sorry.
Weighted sum of your input and still you
can start with some randomly selected
numbers.
This B could be 0.
Could be whatever number you want.
Those W's can be can be 0 or whatever
number you want at the at the beginning.
So then you you choose your your start
set of weights and then you you.
You you chose your own bias here,
and then you do the summation of them.
And then if that sum is bigger than 0,
you just keep the Y as was.
Otherwise you just zero out that.
Not that Yu.
So then you have this one as a part of
the the network and then you just keeping
all the positive value in going forward
as you can see if you connect this value
function and this binary threshold.
Threshold function.
So you can pass all the positive value.
You here and then this one gonna
automatically assign A1 if this is an old
right after this radio function, right?
So then you you don't.
You know,
we we talk about how we optimize this B
and ways,
but you know in this value function.
Know that you know this is really doing
this work.
Weighted summation and 0 the value out if
the weighted summation.
It is not here.
And sigmoid function.
Sigmoid function is converting this
entire.
Weighted weighted sum.
Into a probability between zero and one.
This is what a sigmoid function is doing,
so that if your final outcome.
Is only zero and one.
That kind of a classification problem
you're solving,
and then the last node you would
definitely do is a sigmoid node because
you don't need any value bigger than one
or less than 0.
You just need some value in between and
then so then if the the probability from
this node is bigger than .
5 you call it one other one.
Otherwise you call it 0.
So then you definitely want to have the
Sigma. I found a sigmoid.
As a last note, in your newer network.
Hyper about Hyper V tangent function is
sort of like a similar function.
It looks similar to sigmoid. You know,
it's definitely A0 centered,
so the good news and the good news is
definitely have like a well behaved
derivatives.
So then it's great for gradient descent.
Is how this function is used.
I don't foresee we're going to use any
hyperbolic tangent function in this class,
but just show you guys where this is also.
Good activation function to use softmax
units.
So this guy is you do have the outcome to
be any way you and then you can help you
to normalize the probability in case you
have in case you have more than.
One class or an two class two class
classify.
So then you you would definitely use
softer Max function and softer Max
function looks like this.
OK.
So we just quickly go through all the
activation functions and here is a pros
and cons of of different selected set of.
Set of activation function right?
So then obviously in this class.
You can just remember if you have a 22.
Class classification problem you,
you you definitely wanna choose a sigmoid
for regression problem.
You use a value quite often and then you
have more than two class classification
problem.
You you definitely want to use softmax.
And if you remember those points,
I think that's a good enough in this
class.
And definitely as what I said.
So this is sort of in a fancy way how to
write a logistic regression.
Logistic regression.
You can actually consider that as.
As as a newer network per southeast.
But you didn't figure that out.
Just because we have a better way to to
to solve this logistic regression.
But if you write the logistic regression
in this format,
you definitely want to do this.
You definitely want to have a bias.
He definitely have a set of weights and
then you did a weighted sum over there
and then you have you have this
activation function define as a sigmoid
function and that's exactly you did in
logistic regression.
You have the probability as output and
then you assign you you.
Definitely assign a one or zero based
upon the the probability that you have.
As a direct or raw outcome from the
logistic regression.
Right. So yeah,
so this is a new way to see the logistic
regression as a one of.
Network.
So we're not strange to neural network
actually.
So the next question is OK.
We do know that, you know, we said, OK,
so from different.
Activation functions we rely on a
weighted sum of those raw inputs.
And then those are sort of before we have
any result into the activation function,
we have to calculate the weighted sum of
those input, so then.
How do we find the best set of weights
right? So then how do we find?
How do we find this?
Remember we are.
Remember, our goal is to generate.
Best results? Best results meaning.
We want to minimize.
The total errors, right?
So then we want our outcome from our
model to be.
Accurate or close to the real actual
results as much as possible.
That is our goal,
no matter how we quantify the difference
between our outcome from the either
neural network for different models,
we want that quantified.
Error to be as small as possible.
Well,
we want it as more as possible from our
train set and then we also want the
quantified error as small as possible
from our test set.
Right.
So then that will be the optimal case?
That was that is our goal.
So then we want to have a side of those
weights to help that achieve the goal to
minimize the training test error,
the training error and the test errors.
So that's why we need to set.
We need to find the best set of weights,
but in theory you can choose.
Your set of ways.
Which usually are not optimal, right?
There are two ways we can do is there is
a scientific reason that we can seek a
learning method that real neurons can use.
And and engineer reason is we need a
method to generate the multi layer
nonlinear new networks and then and then
the the scientific reason or the
analytics.
Solution is.
So the scientific reason we want to find
a formula and then we just analyze the
formula. OK,
so then we can find the best set of ways.
The engineering reason is we may not have
to depend on rely on that specific
formula for us to find the set of ways
the difference is.
The the scientific or analytic way of
finding the best weight is let's just
generate.
The formula of it we want to know that
every single detail of it and then and
then we put it into.
A summation of square error function and
then we can take the derivatives and then
hopefully those those ways are also
differentiable.
So then we can.
Eventually converted to a math problem
and can definitely solve it,
and then eventually the outcome is a set
of formulas.
Whenever we see the similar problem,
we just assign the value to the formulas
we have the answers.
The the engineering way.
Isn't that so that it is possible that we
do not know how exactly those formula
look like.
We may not know every single detail of
those formula, but we can,
through our engineering process to have
approximation of your best answer by
through iterations of.
A process finding optimizing the weights.
So the difference is,
do we have to rely on subsid formula for
scientific analytics?
The answer is yes,
but for engineered the answer is we may
not.
And then for analytic or scientific
approach,
we want to convert it to a math problem
and know exactly formula so that later on
we can rely on a formula that still going
to be the code unco best case scenario
because.
Because engineering process going to take
time.
I'm gonna take effort gonna take umm
computational effort to to achieve the
same uh result that analytic can achieve
in one second if you know the formula.
But a lot of times you don't.
So then you have to run iterations to get
your result as close to the the code unco
analytic result as possible.
So that is really the engineering
approach.
And and and and as you can imagine in the
neural network.
World will definitely use the engineering
approach, right? So let's see.
Let's try this.
So let's let's try this example, right.
So then you have.
You went to a mysterious cafeteria, right?
So then for that.
For whatever reason,
that cafeteria does not tell you the
individual item prices, right?
So then you always like me.
I you always, as I say me,
I always order three things.
Burger chips and drink, right?
So then the day one, I order two burgers,
one ship and one drink.
I pay the $1212.96.
Day 2.
I I purchased one Burger,
2 chips and two drinks.
I paid this $10.95 day three.
I order three burgers,
one chip and one drink.
I pay $1795 day for the 421.
I paid about almost $25.
Can you use this table?
To figure it out, the price for each item,
for example,
how much does one single burger cost you
and how much does one single bag of chips
cost you and how much does 1 bottle of
drink cost you using this information?
Right.
So then and then hopefully you can find
an answer.
So now I gonna do the.
I'm gonna steal you guys into different
rooms and then you can figure this out.
Let me just send.
Maybe we can just pause while so then you
guys can take a screenshot of this table
which going to be your inputs Yu for your
discussion. Right so then.
Let me just.
Let's just pass it like 10 seconds.
So then you guys can take a screenshot of
this one.
Hopefully you can see this table.
Right. So then you guys can design?
Your way to find out the burger and chips
and the cost of burger and chips and and
drink, right?
So do you have the screenshot yet?
OK.
I.
I guess assignments means yes.
So now let's just do the rooms and then
so you guys can discuss.
Good luck.
Yeah, that'd be awesome.
Do do you guys have any luck?
Did you guys figure it out?
The cost per.
Each kind of food.
Yep.
Oh good.
How did you guys figure that out?
Well,
you can look at day one versus day three
to figure out the price of the burger and
then day one.
Three, yes.
Yep, and that was 499.
And then you can look at day one and day
five to figure out the price of the drink.
And then you can once you have those two,
you can just solve any of the days to get
Yeah.
the price of the chips.
OK.
That's that's awesome.
Yeah. So so yes, that's totally correct,
right. So then.
Is that the only thought that you guys
have any any other plan?
That's totally great. Great idea, right?
So then you have this day,
one you have day three.
So then the only difference is 1 burger.
So then you can figure it out.
That burger is pretty much like $5 or 499,
right? So this is awesome.
And then you have that figured it out.
You can.
You can use the day one versus day four
so you can figure it out.
You know how one ship is really cost you
and then and then you just plug in like a
burger chip and then you can have drinks.
That's a great plan.
Right.
So then that is the the scientific
approach, this sort of analytic approach,
analytic approach solution.
You know you compare those formulas and
then and then you do some.
Linear algebra.
So then you can solve the equation,
the system equations and then you can
figure it out.
Each of them is.
So that's great.
However,
if you do have those burgers and chips
and drinks and then for example,
I can stand this list and then that will
be really,
really hard for you guys to figure this
out.
And I I I gave you 5 days and technically
unknowns are only three.
So then you can definitely figure it out
this answer,
but if the data is getting more and more
complex and getting more and more data,
it wouldn't be able to use.
The linear algebra to solve the problem
but but with that being said and then
it's a great idea.
We now we have 2 approaches, right?
So then either we can teach AI how to use
a linear algebra or.
To solve a bigger system of equations for
us or we we we figure out another way,
right?
So then as you can see,
the current opening I isn't so great at
solving the system equations.
So then that way is definitely one
approach where it's boring.
Another way is can we try a different way
to to to do this and then this is one
example that you know I gonna remind you
guys again.
The.
The the gradient descent right?
So then we just go back to the gradient
descent slide.
Hopefully I still have it here.
This is one problem we can all we can
solve it by gradient descent again.
Right.
So then I just create this excel just
while you guys are thinking, OK.
So then let me just hide those.
Let me just hide those.
So then this is a beast.
Sorry this ABCD B is a burger.
I see your chairs.
Drink so that is how much you paid, right?
So.
So this is the the unit that the portions
that we bought.
So you guys are doing great job.
So then so that what I'm going to do is
I'm going to guess.
So then I'm just guessing like $1.
00 per burger is.
So that would be great.
And $2.
00 per per one chip and then $3 per per
drink.
Or or, you know I can just do 111.
Why not 111? OK,
so then so now I can guess.
I can guess the let me just DV those.
Sorry.
I can just repeat this.
I mean, I don't need those.
Yeah,
I can discuss based upon my assumption.
Every single one cost $1.00.
So the I bought I bought 44 portions of
those and then I should pay $4.
Instead, I paid 1296 so that my era is is,
is.
Eight $8.96.
And then I I'm calculating error squared
as well.
So then I'm guessing the second one I
bought.
Five of them, five portions of them.
So then,
since every single portion costs $1.
00 and I got this $5, I have a $5.
95 as a error and then error square.
Is this so?
Then I just keep doing this.
So then I have all the errors per day and
then I have a error squared.
So then I'm going to calculate the
gradient per burger and chip and and and
and drink.
So I'm going to use if you guys remember
that.
Summation.
Of error function.
So then I have y -, Y,
hat squared and then my Y hat.
Is actually my price of burger Miles by
burger portion plus my price of shift
modified by my cheap portion plus my
price of.
Drink modified drink portion.
So then my partial.
My derivative.
This is going to be my era.
My derivative.
Of E subject.
To my price.
B will be if you use chain rule that will
be -1 multiply.
Y -, y hat.
And I definitely have a 2 here.
And multiply the partial derivative of Y
hat versus price B.
So then that will be my portion of
burgers.
Sorry,
so then I do the same calculation to here.
So then.
Social with price C is the same formula.
Multiply the cheap portion and then the
price drink will be same formula and the
multiplying the drink K.
So now be my gradient.
So then I just pull this calculation here.
So then my gradient associate with burger
will be and by the way, y -,
Y hat is my error.
So that means my error.
To multiply this number my error and
multiply my portion.
Of burgers. So that is my gradient B.
My gradient C is.
2 multiply by error.
Multiply my portion of ships.
My my gradient associated with the drinks
is 2 multiplied by error and multiply
this drink portions so then I have those
prepared.
I just copy this assigned to.
Those values and then I calculate the
average.
This is average and I define my learning
rate equals .1.
OK.
So now I'm just copy this.
To here I'm going to define a new price
as the original price plus my learning
rate.
Multiply my average gradient associated
with B.
So then this is my going to be my new
price.
This going to be this plus learning rate
mod Y.
This is going new price of the chips.
And this going to be this plus learning
rate multiply by D.
And this is going to be my price.
OK.
So then by doing so.
I'missioning increase this error squared.
So then it's just not good.
So then I'm going to change the learning
rate to be a smaller number.
OK,
by changing the learning rate to a
smaller number as you can see I have this
error squared smaller.
I think that's that's just because my
original learning rate is too big.
So then we just surpassed that the, the,
the local minimum.
So then we have this prepared what we can
do is copy paste this.
So this.
Sorry, one more nice to this.
To this.
And so this so as you can see.
As I'm applying this method.
My prize?
Essentially,
B is getting closer and closer to that
499 and my prize trips and D are getting
closer.
Closer to the real prize,
the evidence of saying that is my error
is getting smaller and smaller, right?
So then.
I do not know the formula.
I'm not as smart as you guys can solve
this system equation.
But I can still achieve similar goal by
doing this.
So what I can do is I can even copy paste
the entire thing.
So that as you can see,
I'm getting close there.
I'm really getting close to the real
numbers, right?
Yeah.
So then what you want is you just copy
paste everything.
It's gonna speed up.
So then eventually you know,
you just minimize this error stuff,
but you know your learning rate is a .01.
So then later on,
the staff is getting smaller and smaller,
but eventually gonna converge to the
actual price for chips. For for,
for burger, for drinks.
So then this is what we called
engineering approach.
So that's really about like a number of
rounds.
You're running this and then you're
actually gonna achieve that.
OK.
Um.
That's another example using the gradient
descent.
And that's exactly what we're talking
about.
So then in terms to determine that the
best weights you can definitely use the
gradient descent.
This is a powerful rule that you can do
it and then also you can use gradient
descent, logistic neurons,
logistic regressions and that will be a
little bit more than a regression problem
just because.
This sigmoid function you want to take a
take a derivative of that.
That's somewhat complex.
But eventually this is going to be the
formula.
You can definitely use this engineering
approach to optimize your logistic
regression.
OK.
So why we want to use this alliterations
or why we prefer those iterations?
Is kind of a?
The obvious the reason is we.
May not know exactly how those formula
gonna look like and solving system
equations is more computationally
expensive than running iterations,
unfortunately.
And and and then maybe another reason is
maybe we do not even need a perfect
solution as long as getting close to the
real solution and we are happy with that.
So that's why and then and as you can see.
See from this example I'm showing you.
The drawback of doing this is,
you know at the beginning.
At the beginning my the first round,
right?
So I have that error squared is 684.
I can reduce it by 200 by adding one
round and a 204 hundred to two hundred
280 to 100, so I can.
I can reduce this error pretty rapidly at
the beginning.
But towards the end of this table,
now I'm really reducing from 3:25 to 314.
So there's like only .11,
so that's four quite small error
reduction.
So now how fast?
Your iteration gonna.
Cost or drive the convergence?
That's also a questionable.
So then there are some techniques that
you can change the the learning rate to
drive higher quicker convergence.
Right. So that's why.
So there are some detailed reason why the
the learning can be slow.
Just because you know.
The actual error surface it looks like
this if you project it to a 2D dimension.
In a 3D it looks like a mountain or looks
like.
A dip so that would look like a hole.
So then you you have to find that the
correct direction to either grow up or
down to the bottom.
And then that is somewhat hard.
So now you need to always change your
direction.
So there. So then it could be slow.
So then there.
So that's why a lot of people prefer to
use, not a static learning rate,
but a stochastic learning rate to change
the learning to make the learning fast.
But this is one example that you can
certainly have analytical solution,
but usually.
Engineering solution is cheaper and then
is is more preferred.
Word.
OK.
So let's stop here.
And next week,
we gonna start talking about a
backpropagation.
As you heard from Lydia is a very.
Important technique in your network.
A final reminder for next week.
Next week will be see.
I'll be seeing you guys in person in
March and university.
I'll send you guys and reminder.
During the weekend.
And then it's still same time 5:30 and
then we have a speaker whose name is Jeff.
And he's aceo of a financial advisory
company.
The name of the company, the Symphony.
And he gonna talk about how Symphony is
using aiml.
You guys gonna learn a ton from from?
He's also.
One member on the OTHERWISEER board of a
finance department.
And then also,
we're gonna experiment like in person
kind of experience, right?
So then I will see you guys first time
and last time in person next week and
then I hope you have a great week and
then great weekend.
OK, bye.
It's Eric.
Feel better?
Yeah. Thank you.